DAP 2026 DRAFT — CHAPTER I (ACQUISITION CATEGORIES AND INDIGENOUS CONTENT)
Source: Ministry of Defence Draft DAP 2026 (February 2026)
STATUS: DRAFT — NOT YET IN FORCE. DAP 2020 remains operative.

 
 
 
 
OBJECTIVES AND GUIDING PRINCIPLES 
1. Objective.     The Defence Acquisition Procedure serves as the foundational framework for 
capital acquisitions undertaken by the Ministry of Defence and the Ser vice Headquarters. Its primary 
objective is to ensure the timely acquisition of military equipment, systems and platforms as required 
by the Armed Forces in terms of performance, capabilities and quality standards, through optimum 
utilisation of allocated  budgetary resources. While enabling the same, the Defence Acquisition 
Procedure will provide for the highest degree of probity, public accountability, transparency, fair 
competition and level-playing field. 
2. Guiding Principles.     The Defence Acquisit ion Procedure 2026 is structured to ensure that 
acquisition decisions are strategically aligned with national security priorities, procedurally sound, 
economically prudent and geared toward long -term industrial transformation. The following guiding 
principles underpin its design, logic and implementation framework:- 
2.1. National Security Imperatives .     The Defence Acquisition Procedure reinforces 
India’s ability to respond to current and evolving threats across all the operational domains. It 
prioritises capability enhancement, operational readiness and strategic autonomy by promoting 
reduced reliance on foreign systems and enabling integration through interoperable and 
standardised platforms. 
2.2. Atmanirbhar Bharat and Indigenisation.     In support of national self-reliance, DAP 
2026 embeds indigenous capability development as a core objective. It fosters indigenous 
design, manufacturing and technology development, while encouraging Medium, Small and 
Micro Enterprises and Start -ups participation to buil d a resilient and competitive defence 
industrial base. 
2.3. Cost Effectiveness and Lifecycle Value .     The procedure emphasises long -term 
sustainability and lifecycle cost considerations in acquisition planning. It promotes modularity, 
upgradeability and infrastructure compatibility to ensure enduring operational viability and 
fiscal responsibility. 
2.4. Transparency and Fair Competition.     Defence Acquisition Procedure 2026 ensures 
a transparent and equitable procurement environment through standardised  procedures and 
competitive vendor selection, reinforcing public accountability and institutional integrity. 
2.5. Ease of Doing Business .     Defence Acquisition Procedure 2026 enables simplified 
structures and procedures to promote ease of doing business. 
2.6. Accountability and Oversight .     Robust mechanisms are embedded to monitor 
compliance with contractual obligations, indigenous design and indigenous content, ensuring 
that acquisitions deliver intended strategic outcomes. 
2.7. Flexibility and Respon siveness.     To meet diverse operational needs, Defence 
Acquisition Procedure 2026 incorporates flexible models to enable adaptive decision -making 
within defined thresholds to support timely and context-sensitive acquisitions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER I 
ACQUISITION CATEGORIES, 
ACQUISITION PLANNING, 
INDIGENOUS DESIGN AND 
INDIGENOUS CONTENT 
  
2 
CHAPTER I 
ACQUISITION CATEGORIES, ACQUISITION PLANNING, INDIGENOUS DESIGN AND 
INDIGENOUS CONTENT 
Introduction 
1. The DAP shall govern all Capital Acquisitions undertaken by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) 
and Service Headquarters (SHQ), whether sourced indigenously or through import, except for works, 
land and medical equipment. 
2. All acquisition of goods and services, including Transfer of Technology (ToT), carried out 
under Capital Expenditure as per Rules 84, 98, 99, 101 and 233 of General Financial Rules -2017 and 
booked under the Capital Budget Head will be classified as ‘Capital Acquisitions’ and shall be 
processed in accordance with the procedures laid down in DAP 2026.  
Scope 
3. The DAP contains all the procurement policies and procedures and shall be read in conjunction 
with the Handbook of Guidelines & Annexures, which contains all relevant guidelines, formats and 
appendices. 
4. In the event of enactment of new legislation  or change or amendment or enforcement of any 
Act or Law or Policy, rules or regulations or guidelines of the MoD or Ministry of Finance (MoF) or 
Government of India (GoI) or bodies such as Central Vigilance Commission, which becomes effective 
after the date of last amendment to DAP 2026, the same will automatically be deemed as replacement 
to the one referred to in DAP 2026. All such relevant polices would be updated on the MoD website 
along with the latest edition of DAP. Also, all previous letters / instructions issued before the issue of 
DAP are deemed to have been superseded after the issue of DAP 2026. 
Note – SHQ,  for the purpose of DAP, would include HQ Integrated Defence Staff (IDS), Integrated 
HQ of the MoD (Army), Naval HQs, Air HQs  and the Indian Coast Guard (ICG). Defence Research 
and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) will 
continue to follow their own procurement procedure. 
Acquisition Planning Process  
5. Capability Development Planning Process .       The capability development plan for the 
Armed Forces would evolve from the National Security Strategy / Guidelines and the ‘Raksha Mantri’s 
Operational Directive’. The following planning process would be adopted:- 
5.1. HQ IDS shall prepare a 10-year roll on Integrated Capability Development Plan (ICDP) 
in consultation with the SHQ (less ICG), every five years, consisting of two parts. Part I of the 
ICDP shall contain Defence Capital Acquisition Plan (DCAP) for the first five years and Part 
II of the ICDP shall contain the DCAP for next five years. The ICG’s Capability Development 
Plan will be prepared on similar lines and processed separately by HQ ICG along with the 
ICDP for approval of DAC. The ICDP and ICG’s Capability Development Plan will be 
approved by the DAC. The ICDP will clearly define requirements, induction timelines and 
facilitate the derivation of system specifications, ensuring that Acceptance of Necessity (AoN) 
for major systems accounts for lead times required for development, testing, eva luation and 
production. 
5.2. A Technology Perspective Capability Roadmap (TPCR) will be derived by translating 
the ICDP into precise problem definition statements, along with the ICDP and ICG’s Capability 
3 
Development Plan, which may be made public to guide  industry efforts towards allocation of 
resources and seamless transition from technology development to testing, trials and 
production.  
5.3. Based on the ICDP, each SHQ shall prepare a two -year roll-on acquisition plan, to be 
called the Annual Acquisitio n Plan (AAP), before the commencement of each financial year, 
which shall form the basis for initiation of every acquisition proposal for AoN. The draft AAP 
will be submitted by the SHQ to HQ IDS by the 31 st of January each year, after obtaining 
comments of the concerned Joint Secretary and Acquisition Managers (JS & AMs), Additional 
Director Generals Acquisition Technical (ADGs Acquisition Technical) and MoD (Finance). 
5.4. A consolidated AAP will be prepared by HQ IDS along with prioritisation of schemes  
based on the overall financial limits linked to the anticipated budget {limits being fixed in 
consultation with MoD (Finance)}. HQ IDS will obtain approval of the AAP from the DPB in 
the first DPB of the new Financial Year. Approval of the DPB of AAP in respect of ICG will 
be processed by HQ ICG after due prioritisation. 
6. AAP. 
6.1. The AAP will comprise of six parts as given below :- 
6.1.1. Part A will contain a list of all carry -over acquisition proposals from the 
previous year and those for which AoN has been accorded during the year. 
6.1.2. Part B will include the list of acquisition proposals under the Buy scheme [to 
include Buy (Indian -Indigenously Designed, Developed and Manufactured) {‘Buy 
(Indian-IDDM)}, Buy (Indian) and Manufacture in India, Buy  (Global) and 
Manufacture in India & Buy (Global)], likely to be initiated for AoN in the forthcoming 
year. 
6.1.3. Part C will include the list of cases under the Development scheme {to include 
Design and Development (D&D), Make -I, Make-II, Make-III, Innovation in Defence 
Excellence (iDEX) and Technology Development Fund (TDF)}, likely to be initiated 
for AoN in the forthcoming year. 
6.1.4. Part D will list of proposals for procurement under Other Capital Procurement 
Procedure (OCPP), likely to be initiated for AoN in the forthcoming year. 
6.1.5. Part E will include proposals under Fast Track Procedure (FTP), likely to be 
initiated for AoN in the forthcoming year.  
6.1.6. Part F will include proposals under Strategic Partnership (SP), likely to be 
initiated for AoN in the forthcoming year.  
6.2. The maturity levels of indigenous technology based on Technology Readiness Levels 
(TRLs) in accordance with ISO 16290:2013 of the product offered, assessed as per National 
Technology Readiness Assessment Framework (NT RAF) or certified by the National 
Establishment for Technology Readiness Assessment (NETRA) / any other accredited / 
recognised National or Global certification agency, may be reflected in the AAP against each 
acquisition proposal. Further details of TRLs are provided in Para 9 of Appendix A of Chapter 
I of the Handbook of Guidelines & Annexures. 
6.3. Acquisition proposals not included in the AAP may also be initiated by SHQ on account 
of unforeseen circumstances and will be deemed to be included in the rel evant section of the 
AAP after the grant of AoN. However, AoN for such cases shall be processed within the overall 
4 
budget estimates as prescribed for AAP and shall be approved by the DAC. The AAP will be 
accordingly revised and brought up for approval of the DPB as per the next scheduled revision. 
6.4. The DPB may also carry out amendments to the AAP, if considered necessary, on 
account of national security requirements, operational urgencies and budgetary provisions or 
any other exigency based on recommend ations made by SHQ / HQ IDS / Department of 
Military Affairs / MoD (Finance) / Department of Defence. 
6.5. SHQ shall preferably undertake Request for Information (RFI) / Preliminary Study (as 
applicable) for proposals listed in the ICDP before their inclus ion in the AAP. However, the 
AAP approved by DPB may contain proposals for which RFI / Preliminary Study are yet to 
commence. For such proposals, SHQ shall issue RFI / commence Preliminary Study within 
eight (08) weeks of inclusion in the AAP (ie, issue of minutes of DPB meeting). 
Request for Information (RFI) / Preliminary Study 
7. RFI.     RFI is a means to carry out an environment scan and seek vendor inputs for acquisition 
proposals for deciding on acquisition category, Services Qualitative Requirement (SQR) / Joint 
Services Qualitative Requirement (JSQR), maintenance philosophy, contractual provisions, for 
inclusion in AoN, Request for Proposals (RFPs) and contracts. In addition to seeking vendor inputs, 
SHQ shall also leverage known defence equipment databases, specialist tools or consultancy services 
to examine adversary capabilities and global market offerings as part of the RFI process. The objectives 
of RFI are as follows: - 
7.1. To explore the suitability of the available equipment / technology to meet the 
Operational Requirements (ORs) of the Services. 
7.2. To formulate / refine / rationalise SQR based on a rational combination of different 
product specifications.  
7.3. To determine the acquisition schemes of Buy, Development, Additional Procedures or 
their combination and aid in determining the applicable acquisition category. 
7.4. To estimate indicative budgetary and cost implications, besides assisting CNCs to arrive 
at a realistic benchmarking price. 
7.5. To gather inputs for drafting trial methodologies and identifying applicable Indian and 
international standards.  
7.6. To identify sub -systems, Line Replaceable Units (LRUs), software and fast -moving 
spares for mandatory indigenous production / development for inclusion in the AoN, RFP and 
contracts. 
7.6. To gather inputs for maintenance philosophy as well as other contractual provisions for 
inclusion in the AoN, RFP and contracts. 
7.7. To enable vendors time to obtain requisite Government clearances such as Industrial 
License, Registration, Export License etc by providing lead time. 
8. The RFI shall be sent to known vendor bases, Industrial bodies and Defence Attachés. SHQs 
may refer SRIJAN-DEEP portal of DDP for identification of vendors with domain expertise. Extensive 
interactions will be held  by SHQ with Indian as well as Global vendors / industrial bodies after the 
issue of the RFI. Unclassified RFIs shall be hosted on the MoD, SRIJAN -DEEP Portal and SHQ 
websites. Vendors responding to the RFI are required to provide factual and correct infor mation in 
their responses within eight weeks, extendable by further eight weeks by SHQ. In case, at any 
5 
subsequent stage of the acquisition process, it comes to notice that any vendor(s) has furnished false 
information in response to RFI, the EMD / PWBG ma y be forfeited and MoD may impose any other 
penalty as deemed appropriate.  
9. If the final SoC for AoN is not submitted in SPB / DPB secretariat for accord of AoN post 
expiry of 66 weeks from the closing date of RFI response, the process of RFI will be re-initiated.  
10. SHQ shall provide a quarterly report for RFI issued and their status to the Project Management 
Unit at the Acquisition Wing in MoD. 
11. The norms and procedures for RFI are given in Appendix A of the Handbook of Guidelines & 
Annexures. 
Preliminary Study. 
12. SHQ may carry out the preliminary study with the involvement of other stakeholders instead 
of issuing RFI, where applicable. Industry associations including MSME associations would also be 
consulted to assist in preparation of Preliminary Study Report. SHQ may hire consultants / experts for 
the Preliminary Study for which funding, if required, shall be borne by SHQ under relevant Revenue 
Budget. The Preliminary Study Report shall be included in the statement of case for AoN. The 
Preliminary Study shall look into the following aspects:- 
12.1 Assessment of enabling technologies to realise the requisite equipment  / system / 
platform / components or their upgrades. 
12.2. Assessment of capability of Indian industry to undertake design and development of the 
requisite equipment / system / platform or their upgrades and to identify probable vendors. 
12.3. Estimated time period for development. 
12.4. Estimated cost of prototype development and for subsequent procurement. 
12.5. Recommend the optimal acquisition category. 
12.6. Any other aspect considered important. 
SQR 
13. SHQ will formulate SQRs  for all capital acquisitions. However, proposals involving already 
inducted equipment will not necessitate SQR formulation and existing SQR will suffice. S QRs need 
to be realistic, achievable, verifiable and unambiguous. SQRs must not be tailored for a particular 
product. Required relevant standards will be mentioned in the SQRs. The SQRs will follow a standard 
format comprising Introduction, Essential Para meters-A, Essential Parameters -B (if applicable) and 
Enhanced Performance Parameter (EPP) (if applicable), as given in Paras 2 to 7 of Chapter II of DAP. 
The SQRs shall be approved by SEPC / ISEPC which may include Subject Matter Experts nominated 
by MoD. 
14. Preliminary SQR (PSQR).     SHQ shall formulate PSQRs in all cases under Make -I, Make-
II, Make-III, D&D, iDEX and TDF, where the requirement of development and evaluation of prototype 
exists before issuing RFP for procurement. The PSQRs shall comprise ‘Essential Parameters’ and 
‘Desirable Parameters’ and shall be approved by competent authority at SHQ. PSQRs shall be usually 
be converted to SQRs by SEPC / ISEPC post successful development and before issue of the 
commercial RFP in all cases, except where  specific provisions enunciated in subsequent chapters 
provide for issue of RFP on PSQR.  
6 
15. The details for the formulation of SQRs are given in Chapter II of DAP 2026. 
Acquisition Categories 
16. Capital acquisitions are broadly classified in schemes of ‘Buy’, ‘Development’ and ‘Additional 
Procedures’. The acquisition categories under these broad acquisition schemes are as below. 
17. Buy Scheme.     Buy refers to the procurement of equipment, system, platform or their upgrades 
or their sub-systems, sub-assemblies, assemblies, components, ammunition and software, as the case 
may be, that are available for purchase from indigenous or foreign sources. The following acquisition 
categories form part of the Buy scheme:- 
17.1. Buy (Indian-Indigenously Designed, Developed and Manufactured) [‘Buy (Indian-
IDDM)]’.    This category refers to the acquisition of defence equipment, system, platform or 
their upgrades or their sub-systems, sub-assemblies, assemblies, components, ammunition and 
software, as the case may be,  that have been indigenously designed, developed and 
manufactured, by Indian vendors as defined in Para 23 below, including additional conditions 
at Sub-Paras 23.1 and 23.2 of this chapter and meet the specified Indigenous Design (ID) and 
Indigenous Content (IC) requirements.  
17.2. Buy (Indian) and Manufacture in India .    The ‘Buy (Indian) and Manufacture in 
India’ category refers to the acquisition of defence equipment, system, platform or their 
upgrades or their sub -systems, sub -assemblies, assemblies, components, ammunition and 
software, as the case may be, from Indian vendors as defined at Para 23 below, excluding 
additional conditions at Sub -Paras 23.1 and 23.2, meeting the specified IC requirement. It 
comprises two essential components: - 
17.2.1. Buy Component.     This involves the direct purchase of equipment from Indian 
Vendors. The Indian vendor may import the required equipment, system, platform or 
their upgrades or their sub -systems, sub -assemblies, assemblies, components, 
ammunition and software, as the case may be, from foreign OEMs.  
17.2.2. Manufacture Component .     This entails indigenous manufacture of 
equipment, system, platform or their upgrades or their sub -systems, sub -assemblies, 
assemblies, components, ammunition and software, as the case may be and may follow 
a graduated approach to production, comprising semi -knocked down kits, completely 
knocked down kits and indigenous manufacturing, along with testing, integration, 
maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facility and upgrades, thr ough transfer of 
technology (ToT) to the Indian vendor.  
17.2.3. Acquisition under this category may be carried out with Buy Quantity as Zero 
with complete quantities being manufactured indigenously. Equipment / systems / 
platforms figuring on the Positive  Indigenisation Lists, notified by MoD, may be 
procured under this category, only if Buy quantities are Zero. 
17.3. Buy (Global) and Manufacture in India .     The “Buy (Global) and Manufacture in 
India” category refers to an outright purchase of equipment, system, platform or their upgrades 
or their sub -systems, sub-assemblies, assemblies, components, ammunition and software, as 
the case may be, from foreign vendors, in quantities as considered necessary, followed by 
indigenous manufacture of the entire / p art of the equipment and spares / assemblies / sub -
assemblies / Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facility for the equipment, through its 
subsidiary in India / through a Joint Venture / through an Indian Production Agency (PA) (with 
ToT of critical technologies as per specified range, depth and scope to the Indian PA), meeting 
stipulated IC. Indian vendors are eligible to participate in the Buy (Global) and Manufacture in 
7 
India category. Acquisition under this category can also be carried out without a ny initial 
procurement of equipment in the FF state. All payments for the ‘Manufactured’ portion will be 
paid to the vendor in Indian Rupees as per contract provisions. Equipment / systems / platforms 
figuring on the Positive Indigenisation Lists, notified  by MoD, may be procured under this 
category, only if Buy quantities are Zero. 
17.4 Buy (Global) .      The ‘Buy (Global)’ category refers to the outright purchase of 
equipment, system, platform or their upgrades or their sub -systems, sub -assemblies, 
assemblies, components, ammunition and software, as the case may be, from foreign vendors, 
subject to meeting the stipulated IC requirements. In case of procurement through foreign 
vendors, Government-to-Government (G2G) route / Inter-Government Agreement (IGA) may 
also be adopted for equipment meeting strategic / long -term requirements. Indian vendors are 
permitted to participate in the Buy (Global) category. No equipment / systems / platforms 
figuring on the Positive Indigenisation Lists, notified by MoD, shall  be procured under this 
category. For all cases being progressed under the Buy (Global) category, the SoC for AoN 
should include a proposal for accord of AoN for indigenous development through the Make or 
Design & Development (D&D) category. 
17.5. The procedure and norms for acquisition categories under the Buy scheme shall be as 
per Chapter II of DAP 2026.  
18. Development Scheme.     Development refers to acquisition categories that require design and 
development of equipment / system / platform or their upgrades or their sub-systems / sub-assembly / 
assemblies / major components, material, ammunition and software, as the case may be, by indigenous 
design agencies / industry prior to procurement by MoD / SHQ. The Innovation & Indigenisation 
Organisation es tablished by SHQs will lead efforts in innovation, identify indigenous design and 
import substitution projects, monitor progress and employ project / programme implementation 
experts, as well as the latest execution/ monitoring techniques and software / mo dern tools to ensure 
timely development and implementation. The procurement for all acquisition categories under the 
Development scheme shall be carried out under Buy (Indian -IDDM). The following acquisition 
categories form part of the Development scheme :-     
18.1. Make.     The following acquisition categories form part of Make :- 
18.1.1. Make-I.     Make-I refers to the acquisition of equipment / system / platform or 
their upgrades or their sub -systems / sub -assembly / assemblies / major components, 
material, ammunition and software, as the case may be, to be designed, developed and 
manufactured by Indian vendors as defined at Para 23 below, including additional 
conditions at Sub-Paras 23.1 and 23.2 and meeting stipulated ID and IC requirements. 
Projects with emerging and critical technologies may be undertaken under Make -I, as 
per list promulgated by Acquisition Wing, MoD, for Projects under Make-I, MoD shall 
provide financial support for the development of prototypes to selected DAs, as 
approved by AoN According Authority. The procedure and norms for Make-I shall be 
as per Chapter III of DAP 2026. 
18.1.2. Make-II.     Make-II refers to the acquisition equipment / system / platform or 
their upgrades or their sub -systems / sub -assembly / assemblies / major  components, 
material, ammunition and software, as the case may be, to be designed, developed and 
manufactured by Indian vendors as defined at Para 23 below, including additional 
conditions at Sub-Paras 23.1 and 23.2 and meeting stipulated ID and IC requir ements. 
Projects under Make -II, shall be industry -funded and no financial support shall be 
provided by MoD for prototype development to the DAs. The procedure and norms for 
Make-II shall be as per Chapter III of DAP 2026. 
8 
18.1.3. Make-III.     Make-III refers to acquisition of equipment / system / platform or 
their upgrades or their sub-systems / sub-assemblies / assemblies / major components, 
material, ammunition, software or establishment of their Maintenance, Repair & 
Overhaul (MRO) facilities, as the ca se may be, to be manufactured by Indian vendors 
as defined at Para 23 below, excluding additional conditions at Sub-Paras 23.1 and 23.2 
and meeting stipulated IC requirements. The procedure and norms for Make -III shall 
be as per Chapter III of DAP 2026. 
18.2. Innovation.     The following acquisition categories form part of Innovation:- 
18.2.1. Innovation in Defence Excellence (iDEX).     Innovation through iDEX refers 
to development and procurement of equipment / system / platform or their upgrades or 
their sub -systems / sub -assembly / assemblies / major components, material, 
ammunition and software, as the case may be, requiring low capital investments and 
high innovation, that are designed, developed and manufactured by Medium, Small and 
Micro Enterprises (MSMEs)  / Start-ups etc. meeting requirement of Indian vendor as 
defined in Para 23 below, including additional conditions at Sub -Paras 23.1 and 23.2, 
supported through various schemes of iDEX initiative of the Defence Innovation 
Organisation under MoD. The procedure and norms shall be as per Chapter IV of DAP 
2026. 
18.2.2. Technology Development Fund  (TDF) Scheme.     Innovation through the 
TDF scheme refers to the development of technology and the acquisition of equipment 
/ system / platform or their upgrades or their sub-systems / sub-assembly / assemblies / 
major components, material, ammunition and software, as the case may be, that are 
designed, developed and manufactured by Indian vendor especially MSMEs / Start-ups, 
as defined in Para 23 below, including additional conditions at Sub-Paras 23.1 and 23.2, 
supported through TDF of DRDO. The procedure and norms shall be as per Chapter IV 
of DAP 2026. 
18.2.3. Development by Services through Internal Organisations .     This refers to 
the acquisition of equipment / system / platform or their upgrades or their sub -systems 
/ sub-assembly / assemblies / major components, material, ammunition and software, 
as the case may be, that are designed, developed and manufactured by the Services 
through their internal organisations, such as Base Workshops / Dockyards / Base Repair 
Depots / any service unit or personnel, etc., with or without participation of Private 
industry. The procedure and norms shall be as per Chapter IV of DAP 2026. 
18.3. Design & Development (D&D).     D&D refers to the acquisition of equipment / system 
/ platform or their upgrades or their sub -systems / sub -assembly / assemblies / major 
components, material, ammunition and software, as the case may be, that are progressed by 
DRDO / DPSUs / Central Research Agencies, to be designed, developed and manufactured by 
an Indian design agency or vendor as defined in Para 23, including additional conditions at 
Sub-Paras 23.1 and 23.2. The procedure and norms shall be as per Chapter V of DAP 2026. 
18.4. The Make, Innovation and D&D categories of acquisition could be pursued in isolation, 
in sequence or in tandem with any of the categories under ‘Buy’ schemes, with a separate 
heading under ICDP and AAP. 
19. Additional Procedures .     The following acquisition categories form the Additional 
Procedures: - 
19.1. Long Term Bulk Acquisition (LTBA) .     LTBA refers to the acquisition of capital -
intensive, Hi-Tech and complex equipment, systems, platforms and ammunition, from Indian 
9 
vendors / foreign OEMs over a long term in multiple tranches, with progressive indigenisation 
and upgrades. The procedure and norms shall be as per Chapter II of DAP 2026. 
19.2. Fast Track Procedure ( FTP).     FTP (including Emergency Procurement) refers to 
urgent procurement of operationally critical equipment / system / platform or their upgrades or 
their sub-systems / sub-assembly / assemblies / major components, ammunition and software, 
as the case may be, when standard timelines risk compromising operational readiness. It may 
be applied during war or peace and during crises that demand immediate military response. The 
procedure and norms shall be as per Chapter VI of DAP 2026. 
19.3. Low-Cost Capital Acquisition (LCCA) .     LCCA refers to the acquisition of 
equipment / system / platform o r their upgrades or their sub -systems / sub -assembly / 
assemblies / major components, ammunition and software, as the case may be, under Delegated 
powers in limited numbers for exploitation by the armed forces from Indian vendors as defined 
in Para 23, excluding additional conditions at Sub-Paras 23.1 and 23.2. The maximum limit for 
projects under LCCA shall be Rs 75 Crore with an annual cap of Rs 2000 Crore combined for 
all Services. Bulk procurement will be carried out subsequently if the equipment is fou nd 
suitable post-exploitation. The procedure and norms shall be as per Chapter VII of DAP 2026. 
19.4. Other Capital Procurement Procedure (OCPP) .     OCPP category refers to 
Procurement / Acquisition of items of capital nature that enhance the utility of e xisting assets 
including ROH / overhauls, refits, upgrades, refurbishment, modifications and replacement of 
unserviceable units/ items of existing platforms/equipment already introduced into service. The 
procedure and norms shall be as per Chapter VIII of DAP 2026. 
19.5. Strategic Partnership Model (SPM).     Acquisitions under the Strategic Partnership 
model refer model being implemented to enable participation of private Indian firms in Make 
in India in defence. The SP is expected to play the role of a Sy stem Integrator by building an 
extensive eco-system comprising development partners, specialised vendors and suppliers, in 
particular, those from the MSME sector.  The norms and procedures of the same are given in 
Chapter IX of DAP 2026. 
19.6. Leasing.     Leasing refers to an innovative technique for financing equipment / 
platforms. Leasing provides a means to possess and operate the asset without owning the asset 
and is useful to substitute huge initial capital outlays with periodic rental payments. Leasin g 
would be permitted in two sub-categories, i.e. Lease (Indian), where Lessor is an Indian entity 
and is the owner of the asset and Lease (Global). The procedure and norms shall be as per 
Chapter X of DAP 2026. 
20. Inter Government Agreement  (IGA).    In t he context of DAP 2026, IGA refers to an 
agreement between the Government of India and the Government of any friendly foreign country for 
the procurement of defence equipment, platforms or technologies based on strategic, military or 
diplomatic considerations. It enables acquisition on a single vendor basis outside standard procurement 
procedures, governed by mutually agreed terms between governments. IGA may also support co -
development, co-production, leasing or long-term product support. The procedure and norms shall be 
as per Chapter II of DAP 2026. 
Acquisition Category Decision Framework 
21. Categorisation.     The categorisation of acquisition projects is intended to align defence 
procurements with India’s national security objectives, capability enhanc ement and strategic goals of 
self-reliance and technological innovation, by prioritising indigenous design, development and 
manufacturing; promoting technology transfer from foreign entities; supporting Start-ups, MSMEs and 
10 
indigenous industries; and ensuring the timely induction of equipment to meet Service requirements. 
To facilitate this, categorisation shall be done as follows:- 
21.1. Categorisation Matrix.     SHQ shall prepare a Categorisation Matrix based on defining 
attributes and RFI responses, ass essing vendor capabilities across key parameters, including 
operational feasibility, operational requirement, induction timelines, technology feasibility, 
Technology Readiness Levels, Manufacturing Readiness Levels, industry capability, 
indigenous content deliverability, MRO infrastructure, compliance with the Positive 
Indigenisation List and urgency or criticality of the requirement. 
21.2. Selection and Recommendation of Category by SHQ .     The vendor responses 
received through the RFI shall be analysed a gainst the operational requirements, induction 
timelines as per the ICDP and strategic imperatives. SHQ may carry out follow-on interactions 
with the industry and seek inputs from DRDO, DDP, Quality Assurance (QA) Agencies etc, if 
required. Based on this a nalysis, the broad acquisition category shall be identified, whether 
under Buy, Development, Additional Procedures or a combination thereof. Once the broad 
acquisition schemes are identified, SHQ shall recommend the preferred acquisition category 
based on the Categorisation Matrix. The recommendation shall be guided by vendor responses, 
strategic relevance and the potential of the Indian industry. The order of preference shall be as 
follows:- 
21.2.1. Buy (Indian -IDDM).     SHQ shall mandatorily recommend Bu y (Indian -
IDDM) acquisition category if two or more vendors, who meet the requirements of Para 
23, including additional Sub Paras of 23.1 and 23.2, are capable of meeting the defining 
attributes of this category as given in Para 22 below, including indigen ous design, 
indigenous content and Equipment Under Trial (EUT) and delivery timelines. If only 
one Indian Vendor is eligible for IDDM, SHQ shall recommend Buy (Indian -IDDM) 
as an ab-initio single vendor case, provided the product offered by the Indian vendor is 
at technology maturity level of TRL 6 to 9, duly certified by any agency recognised / 
accredited by the GoI. The onus of establishing the technology maturity levels along 
with certification, shall rest with the Indian vendor. 
21.2.2. Buy (Indian) and  Manufacture in India .     SHQ shall recommend Buy 
(Indian) and Manufacture in India acquisition category if no vendor meets the 
requirement at Para 21.2.1. and two or more vendors, who meet the requirements of 
Para 22, excluding additional Sub -Paras 22.1 and 22.2, are capable of meeting the 
defining attributes of this category as given in Para 22 below, including indigenous 
content, EUT and delivery timelines. Depending on the strategic nature of the 
equipment and desired induction timelines, SHQ shall rec ommend the Buy and 
Manufacture quantities. 
21.2.3. Buy (Global) and Manufacture in India .     SHQ shall recommend the Buy 
(Global) and Manufacture in India acquisition category if only foreign OEMs are 
capable of meeting the defining attributes of this cat egory as given in Para 22 below, 
including indigenous content, EUT and delivery timelines. Depending on the strategic 
nature of the equipment, desired induction timelines and willingness of foreign OEMs, 
SHQ shall recommend the Buy and Manufacture quantities. 
21.2.4. Buy (Global).     SHQ shall recommend the Buy (Global) acquisition category 
if only foreign OEMs are capable of meeting the defining attributes of this category as 
given in Para 22 below, including indigenous content, EUT and delivery timelines. 
21.3. Approval of Acquisition Category.     The categorisation matrix shall be prepared by 
SHQ and shall be included in the Statement of Case (SoC) for the grant of AoN. In case of any 
11 
ambiguity in the category recommended by the SHQ, the same may be del iberated by a 
collegiate chaired by the concerned JS & AM with the concerned AAS & DG 
(Acquisition)uisition Technical, Finance Manager and a Major General or equivalent officer 
from SHQ as members (for Non-Delegated cases) / Major General or equivalent officer at SHQ 
with representatives of the concerned AAS & DG (Acquisition)uisition Technical and Finance 
Manager amongst others as members (for Delegated cases). The minutes of such a collegiate, 
if held, shall be included in the SoC for AoN. The acquisition  category for each case shall be 
approved by the AoN According Authority.  
22. Defining Attributes.     The defining attributes of various acquisition categories are as given 
below: -  
22.1. Buy (Indian-IDDM).      The acquisition of defence equipment, systems, platforms or 
their upgrades under this category shall be undertaken if they meet the following criteria: - 
22.1.1. Eligibility.     The equipment, system, platform or their upgrades or their sub -
systems, sub -assemblies, assemblies, components, ammuni tion and software, as the 
case may be, have been produced by Indian industry through in -house R&D / D&D, 
‘Make’, iDEX or TDF schemes or developed under Paragraph 72 of DPP 2016 / Chapter 
IV of DAP 2020 and is either already in service with the armed forces  or available for 
use in another sector or produced but not yet in service. 
22.1.2. Technology Maturity.     Offered solutions are at TRL 5 to TRL 9. 
22.1.3. Delivery Capability.     Indian industry can supply with stipulated indigenous 
design and indigeno us content requirements, firstly for trials and secondly for 
operational use, as per indicated schedule and required quantities. 
22.2. Buy (Indian) and Manufacture in India .     The acquisition of defence equipment, 
system, platform or their upgrades or th eir sub -systems, sub -assemblies, assemblies, 
components, ammunition and software, as the case may be, under this category shall be 
undertaken only if they meet the following criteria:- 
22.2.1. Production Status.    The equipment/system/platform or upgrade is: 
Already in service with Indian Armed Forces with established indigenous 
production or available in another sector with established indigenous production  
Or 
Capable of being manufactured, integrated and tested by Indian Industry, as all 
key technologies are accessible to Indian Industry 
Or 
Capable of being manufactured, integrated and tested by Indian Industry, with 
technology absorption by Indian industry, supported by foreign OEMs willing 
to provide Transfer of Technology (ToT) and Maintenance ToT (MToT). 
22.2.2. Technology Maturity.     The offered solutions are at TRL 8 to TRL 9. 
22.2.3. Delivery Capability.     Indian industry can supply with stipulated indigenous 
content requirements, firstly for trials and / or for operational use, as per the indi cated 
schedule and required quantities, including graded approaches (Fully Formed, SKD 
kits, CKD kits, IM kits). 
12 
22.3. Buy (Global) and Manufacture in India .     The acquisition of defence equipment, 
system, platform or their upgrades or their sub -systems, sub-assemblies, assemblies, 
components, ammunition and software, as the case may be, under this category shall be 
undertaken only if they meet the following criteria: - 
22.3.1. Production Status.    The equipment / system / platform or upgrade is : 
Available with foreign OEM(s), whether in service in a foreign country or not. 
And 
The foreign OEM(s) should be willing to set up a subsidiary / JV / ToT to an 
Indian Production Agency with complete facilities for manufacturing of the 
entire / part of the equipm ent and spares / assemblies / sub -assemblies / 
Maintenance along with Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facility for the entire life 
cycle support of the equipment.  
22.3.3. Technology Maturity.     Offered solutions are at TRL 8 to TRL 9. 
22.3.4. Delivery Capabil ity.     The equipment/system/platform with the stipulated 
indigenous content, as per the indicated schedule and in requisite numbers, can be 
effected by the OEM from the manufacturing facility in India. 
22.4 Buy (Global) .     The acquisition of defence eq uipment, system, platform or their 
upgrades or their sub -systems, sub -assemblies, assemblies, components, ammunition and 
software, as the case may be, under this category shall be undertaken only if they meet the 
following criteria: - 
22.4.1. If the requirement of equipment / system / platform is not of a strategic or long-
term nature and cannot be fulfilled by any of the categories listed above, the following 
may be ensured: 
22.4.1.1. Buy (Global) on a multi or single-vendor basis. 
22.4.1.2. Fast Track Procedure in case of urgent operational requirements. 
22.4.2.  If the requirement is of a strategic nature and / or of a long -term nature and a 
single foreign vendor or all foreign vendors of the same country can provide equipment 
/ system / platform, the following may be ensured:- 
22.4.2.1.  Buy (Global) under Government-to-Government arrangement. 
22.4.2.2. In case of multiple vendors, the product may be selected before 
approaching the foreign Government. 
22.4.2.3. Conclude an Inter -Governmental Agreement if one does not 
already exist, as required. 
22.4.2.4. Requirement of ToT/ M -ToT as required / likely to be made 
available may be factored. 
22.4.3. If the requirement is of a strategic nature and / or of a long-term nature and more 
than one foreign vendor from  different countries can provide equipment/system 
platform; under such circumstances, the following may be ensured:- 
13 
22.4.3.1. Buy (Global) on a competitive bidding basis. 
22.4.3.2. Involve the Government of L1 bidder if required. 
22.4.3.3. Include ToT / MToT as necessary. 
22.4.4. The required product is not included in the Positive Indigenisation Lists notified 
by MoD. 
22.5. Make-I & Make-II.     The acquisition of equipment, system, platform or their upgrades 
or their sub -systems, sub -assemblies, assembli es, components, material, ammunition and 
software, as the case may be, under Make -I / Make -II shall be undertaken if they meet the 
following criteria: - 
22.5.1. Status.     The product required can be produced as all key technologies are 
available and the Indian industry has or can establish the requisite capability to design, 
develop, manufacture, test and integrate. 
Or 
The product required would be designed and developed using technologies 
which are available to the Indian industry through indigenous or f oreign sources; 
however, access to technology and other production related dependencies should be 
under the control of Indian entities only. 
22.5.2. Technology Maturity .     The indigenous technology maturity level of the 
product required is at TRL 1 to TRL 5. 
22.5.3. Induction Timeline.   Adequate time is available for induction of capability. 
22.5.4. Industry Capability .     Indian industry can develop, test and deliver the 
required product with the stipulated indigenous content and indigenous design 
requirement, firstly for trials and secondly for operational use as per the indicated 
schedule and in requisite numbers. 
22.5.5. Make-I.     The following additional attributes shall be applicable for Make-I:- 
22.5.5.1. The required product is a critical requi rement for the Indian 
Armed Forces. 
22.5.5.2. The development of the required product entails high risk for the 
industry, which the industry is not willing to take. 
22.6. Make-III.     The acquisition of equipment, system, platform or their upgrades or their 
sub-systems, sub-assemblies, assemblies, components, materials, ammunition and software, as 
the case may be, under Make-III shall be undertaken if they meet the following criteria: - 
22.6.1. Status.   The required product can be produced as all key tech nologies are 
accessible to the Indian industry or the Indian industry can absorb the technology from 
foreign OEMs and create the necessary production, test and integration facilities for the 
required product and be poised for the up-gradation needed.  
22.6.2. Induction Timeline.     Adequate time is available for induction of capability. 
14 
22.6.3. Industry Capability.     Indian industry can manufacture, test and deliver the 
required product with the stipulated indigenous content, for operational use as per t he 
indicated schedule and in requisite numbers. 
22.9. Design & Development (D&D) .   The acquisition of defence equipment, systems, 
platforms or their upgrades under D&D shall be undertaken if they meet the following criteria:- 
22.9.1. Status.     The milit ary materials, equipment, systems, platforms or upgrades 
thereof are a critical requirement for the Indian Armed Forces. 
22.9.2. Industry Capability.     The development of the military materials, equipment, 
systems, platforms or upgrades thereof entails h igh risk for the industry, which the 
industry is not willing to take. 
Or 
 The key technologies for the development of military materials, equipment, 
systems, platforms or upgrades thereof are not available to the Indian industry or the 
Indian Industry cann ot establish the requisite capability to design, develop, 
manufacture, test and integrate the system. 
22.9.3. Induction Timeline.     Adequate time is available for induction of capability. 
22.9.4. Development Capability.     DRDO / DPSUs / Central Research Agencies can 
develop, test and deliver the military materials, equipment, systems, platforms or 
upgrades thereof with the stipulated indigenous content and indigenous design 
requirement, firstly for trials and secondly for operational use as per the indi cated 
schedule and in requisite numbers. 
22.9.5. Technology Maturity .     The indigenous technology maturity level of the 
equipment / system / platform or their upgrades or their sub -systems / sub-assembly / 
assemblies / major components, military material , as the case may be, are at TRL 1 to 
TRL 5. 
Vendor Selection and Pre-Qualification Criteria 
23. Definition of Indian Vendor.     Unless specifically provided for in a clause / section / chapter 
or elsewhere of DAP 2026, an Indian Vendor by whatever nomenclature when referred to means - for 
defence products requiring industrial license, an Indian entity, which could include incorporation / 
ownership models as per Companies Act, Partnership Firm, Proprietorship and other types of 
ownership models including Societies as per relevant laws, complying with, besides other regulations 
in force and the guidelines / licensing requirements stipulated by the Department for Promotion of 
Industry and Internal Trade as applicable. For defence products not requiring an i ndustrial license, an 
Indian entity registered under the relevant Indian laws and complying with all regulations in force 
applicable to that industry will be classified as an Indian Vendor. The following two additional 
conditions will apply to the definiti on for Buy(Indian -IDDM), Make-I, Make-II, Development cum 
Production Partner in D&D acquisitions and Strategic Partnership Model categories: 
23.1. Ownership by Resident Indian Citizen(s) .     Further, a company is considered as 
‘Owned’ by resident Indian c itizens if more than fifty percent (50%) of the capital in it is 
directly or beneficially owned by resident Indian citizens and / or Indian companies, which are 
ultimately owned and controlled by resident Indian citizens. This implies that the maximum 
permitted Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) shall be forty-nine per cent (49%). No pyramiding 
of FDI in Indian holding companies or in Indian entities subscribing to shares or securities of 
15 
the Applicant Company or the Strategic Partner shall be permitted. Indirect foreign investment 
shall be accounted for in counting the forty-nine per cent (49%) FDI. 
23.2. Control by Resident Indian Citizens(s) .     ‘Control’, as defined in Companies Act 
2013, shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to c ontrol the management 
or policy decisions, including by virtue of their shareholding or management rights or 
shareholders’ agreements or voting agreements. 
24. Indian Vendor Selection / Pre-Qualification.      The guidelines for Indian vendor selection 
/ p re-qualification are given at Paras 11 to 16 of Annexure I of Appendix A to Chapter I of the 
Handbook on Guidelines and Annexures. 
25. Registration of Vendors.     Registration of vendors with MoD shall be mandatory. MoD shall 
register and classify vendors  based on their financial, technical, domain expertise and past 
performance. Registration of vendors with MoD shall be necessary for issue of RFPs. Acquisition 
Wing of MoD shall issue instructions for registration separately. 
Miscellaneous Issues. 
26. Indigenous Design (ID) Requirements.  
26.1. Definition of ID.     For the purposes of DAP 2026, ID refers to the ownership of the 
design of the main equipment, system or platform originally conceived and developed in India 
by a vendor, design agency or other I ndian entity whose ownership and control is held by a 
resident Indian citizen in accordance with Para 23, including additional requirements at Sub -
Paras 23.1 and 23.2. ID qualification requires Indian vendors, design agencies or entities to 
demonstrate com prehensive ownership and control across distinct but interconnected 
constituents and must satisfy the following constituents to establish ID credentials:- 
26.1.1. Design Components.     Demonstration of ownership or availability of complete 
technical artefacts, including design layouts, documents and drawings, detailed circuit 
diagrams, Gerber files, source codes for the main integration software / firmware, 
development environments, essential libraries and test qualification reports of the main 
equipment / system / platform. For equipment, this extends to proprietary hardware 
documentation and semiconductor integrated circuits layout designs. For platforms and 
systems, vendors, design agencies or entities must have the ownership of system -level 
designs and backbone architectures, demonstrate performance simulation capabilities 
and possess the ability to specify, evaluate and substitute constituent components while 
adapting designs for obsolescence management. 
26.1.2. Operational Rights .     Possession of rig hts that guarantee unrestricted 
capability to manufacture, realise, sell, provide through -life support, modify, upgrade, 
develop next -generation versions and export (with GoI approval) without 
encumbrances or dependence on any foreign OEMs. 
26.2. Acquired Intellectual Property (IP) .     Cases where Indian companies acquire 
complete ownership of IP or design rights of the main system / equipment / platform from 
foreign entities shall be deemed to be indigenously designed and developed, provided all the 
above requirements are met. Designs merely licensed from foreign third parties do not qualify, 
except for standard software licenses for operating systems, databases and similar commercial 
off-the-shelf components. 
26.3. ToT from Indian OEMs / DAs.     Any vendor manufacturing a system, equipment or 
platform under a licence agreement with ToT from an Indian OEM, design agency or other 
16 
Indian entity that owns the design will qualify as ID, provided the vendor demonstrates that the 
ToT source is the Indian design owner and meets the requirements in Para 26.1 above. 
26.4. Category-wise ID Requirements.     The following acquisition categories of DAP 2026 
shall mandatorily require vendors to comply with ID requirements:- 
26.4.1.  All procurements through the Buy (Indian-IDDM) Category. 
26.4.2.  Innovations by industry to include Make-I, Make-II, iDEX and TDF. 
26.4.3.  D&D projects by DRDO / DPSUs / Research Agencies. 
26.5. Reporting for ID .     Indian vendors, design agencies or entities claiming ID are 
required to furnish an undertaking (format attached at Appendix B to Chapter I of Handbook 
on Guidelines & Annexures) along with relevant documents to support their claim for ID as 
defined at Para 26.1 above. 
26.6. Verification of ID.    The MoD can exercise its right to conduct verification of ID with 
reasonable notice, of design reports, drawings, specifications, software documents and codes, 
Gerber files, CAD models, IP portfolio and technical development, etc, for the contract at any 
or all stages (tiers) of design, prototyping, manufacturing and assembly. Such verification shall 
be carried out by the MoD itself or by a Specialist Committee / agency / institution / officer(s) 
appointed / nominated by the MoD and shall be completed within two years of the signing of 
the contract . Verification shall be carried out at the premises of the Indian vendor, design 
agency or entity and documents in any form are not to be sought nor required to be submitted 
for examination outside such premises. Verification of ID will mandatori ly be carried out in 
cases where incentives or rewards for ID are to be granted. 
26.7. Incentives for ID.      
26.7.1. Incentives for ID are only applicable to acquisition categories other than those 
listed in Para 26.4 above.  
26.7.2. If approved by AoN A ccording Authority and included in RFP, vendors shall 
be eligible for a credit score for L1 determination, of up to 10% for meeting ID 
requirements of the main system / equipment / platform and up to 2% for meeting ID 
requirements of each specified sub -systems / LRUs / Components. The cumulative 
credit score for L1 determination shall not exceed 15%.  
26.7.3. Possession of IPRs that establish protection under relevant Indian laws through 
registered patents, designs, Semiconductor and Integrated Circuit Layo ut Design 
(SICLD), copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and geographical indications, where 
applicable, shall be mandatory for claiming incentives for ID. The onus of establishing 
ID, duly supported by requisite documents / certifications, shall rest with  the Indian 
vendor. 
26.8. Penalties for Non-Compliance with ID Requirements. 
26.8.1. Forfeiture of Earnest Money Deposit (EMD) .    For acquisition categories 
where ID is a mandatory requirement, in addition to declaring them non -compliant in 
the technical evaluation, EMD may be forfeited in case vendors fail to furnish the 
requisite documents to support their claims for ID.  
26.8.2. Release / Forfeiture of Performance cum Warranty Bank Guarantee 
(PWBG).     If the contract mandates verification of ID or if such verification is notified 
17 
and initiated by the MoD, the PWBG will be released only upon completion of the 
verification by the MoD or its nominated Specialist Committee, agency, institution or 
officer(s). The PWBG shall be forfeited if the vendor is una ble or fails to prove, as 
indicated in their response at any post-contract stage, that the design of the main system 
/ equipment / platform is owned by an Indian vendor, design agency or entity within 
two years of signing the contract.  
26.8.3. Additional Penalties.     In addition to forfeiture of EMD / PWBG, MoD may 
impose any other penalty as deemed appropriate, if false undertakings / certificates / 
documents are furnished by the vendor, design agency or entity in support of their claim 
for ID.  
27. Indigenous Content (IC) Requirements. 
27.1.  Definition of IC .     IC is the domestic value addition in defence procurement, as 
represented as a percentage of the Calculated Base Contract Price (CBCP) (i.e. the Total 
Contract Price less taxes, duties and appl icable exclusions) of the equipment. IC shall be 
calculated for each contract by subtracting the value of Calculated Foreign Content (CFC) (i.e. 
the Foreign Content less applicable exclusions) from the BCP of that equipment / item using 
the formula given below:-  
𝐈𝐂% = {𝐂𝐁𝐂𝐏 − 𝐂𝐅𝐂
𝐂𝐁𝐂𝐏 } 𝐱𝟏𝟎𝟎  
 
27.2. Constituents of IC.      
27.2.1. All direct or indirect costs incurred in Indian Rupees, to include indigenous 
materials, indigenous software, indigenous research and development / ToT, production 
overheads, infrastructure overheads, labour, manufacturing, QA, services, warranty, 
establishment of MRO facilities and profit, shall constitute IC.  
27.2.2. Any indigenous raw material, component, subsystem, LRU or software etc., that 
was exported from India and subsequently imported back as part of foreign goods / 
systems shall be recognised as IC and the value of such exported indigenous raw 
material, component, subsystem, LRU or software etc., utilized in imported goods, shall 
be deducted from FC for calculatio n of IC, provided proper export certificates, re -
import documentation and traceability chain can be furnished by the vendor. 
27.2.3. For the calculation of IC, all costs incurred for transportation, insurance, 
installation, commissioning, training and Annu al Maintenance Contract / 
Comprehensive Maintenance Contract and Buyer Nominated Equipment (BNE) shall 
not be included as IC, as well as the Base Contract Price. 
27.3. Constituents of FC.      
27.3.1. Direct costs (including freight / transportation and in surance) of all materials, 
components, sub-assemblies, assemblies and products imported into India.  
27.3.2. Direct and Indirect costs of all services obtained from non -Indian entities / 
citizens.  
27.3.3. All license fees, royalties, technical fees and other fees / payments of this nature 
paid out of India, by whatever term / phrase referred to in contracts / agreements made 
by vendors / sub-vendors.  
18 
27.4. Category-Wise IC Requirements. 
27.5. Special Requirements for IC. 
27.5.1. The SHQ may recommend a higher IC than that stipulated for the category. In 
case of niche technology-based equipment, with no or minuscule availability of desired 
material in the country, the SHQ may recommend a lower IC than that stipulated for 
the category. The AoN According Authority may approve a higher or lower threshold 
of IC than those stipulated at Para 27.4 above for various categories . A detailed 
justification for the same should be included in the SoC for seeking AoN. 
27.5.2. For ICT Projects (except Systems projects), the minimum IC requirement shall 
be at least 10% more than specified above in Para 26.4. 
27.5.3. Indian vendors, while participating in Buy (Indian) and Manufacture in India or 
Buy (Global) and Manufacture in India categories, shall be required to provide 10% 
lesser IC than that approved by the AoN According Authority, provided they meet the 
ID requirements specified at Para 26 above. 
27.5.4. Minimum 50% of overall IC as stipulated in the RFP / contract (as approved by 
AoN According Authority) for all categories of procurement cases to be in the form of 
material / components / software that are manufactured in India. Relaxation, where due 
justification exists, may be obtained from AoN According Authority on case -to-case 
basis. 
27.5.5. Vendors are required to undertake indigenous production of sub -systems, 
LRUs, software and fast-moving spares identified by SHQ during the RFI / Preliminary 
Study and included in the SoC for AoN, Expression of Interest (EOI) / RFP and 
contract. 
27.5.6. Vendors are required to provide Input / Output (I/O) Protocols of devices / 
LRUs, envisaged to be replaced by indigenous equivalents or interfaced with equipment 
of the buyer’s choice, identified by SHQ during the RFI / Preliminary Study and 
included in the SoC for AoN, EOI / RFP and contract. 
27.5.7. Vendors are required to indigenously carry out Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul 
(MRO) and calibration of the equipment / platform / system along with associated jigs, 
fixtures and test setups, during the designed service life of the equipment. Relaxation, 
where due justification exists, may be obtained from AoN According Authority on case-
to-case basis. 
Ser 
No Category 
IC Requirement for 
Prototype / EUT at 
Trials Stage 
Overall IC 
Requirement by the 
final stage of the 
contract 
27.4.1. Buy (Indian-IDDM) At Least 30 % At Least 60 % 
27.4.2. Buy (Indian) and 
Manufacture in India Nil At least 60 % for 
Manufacture portion  
27.4.3. Buy (Global) and 
Manufacture in India Nil At l east 60 % for 
Manufacture portion 
27.4.4. Buy (Global) Nil Up to 30 % 
19 
27.5.8. A graduated approach for achieving the specified IC is permissible through the 
contract execution period, subject to meeting minimum IC requirements at the Trials 
stage. While IC may progressively increase during different phases / stages of contract 
execution, vendors are required to ensure that the cumulative IC achieved across all 
deliverables and stages of the contract, when calculated against the total value of CBCP, 
meets the specified IC requirement.  
27.5.9. Vendors are required to submit a  comprehensive Indigenisation Plan detailing 
the phase-wise strategy for achieving the specified IC, cumulative IC progression and 
methodology for meeting the overall IC target across the complete contract value. 
27.6. Reporting Requirements.      
27.6.1. IC shall be mandatorily reported as per Appendices B & C of Chapter I of the 
Handbook on Guidelines & Annexures by the Prime Vendor and all tier vendors who 
meet either of the under-mentioned conditions, whichever is lower: -  
27.6.1.1. BCP of the Tier Vendor exceeds Rs 10 crores;  
27.6.1.2. BCP of the Tier Vendor is greater than 5% of the BCP of the 
Prime Vendor. 
Note: For this computation, the BCP of Tier Vendor should include the price 
of all contracts of the Tier Vendor relating to the main contract of the Prime 
Vendor. 
27.6.2. For supplies from the balance tier suppliers or for components / equipment 
bought through traders / stockists / local agents of foreign suppliers, the FC shall be 
aggregated in the IC Proforma by the Prime Vendor, under the head ‘ Others’ at a flat 
estimated rate of 90% of the total value of supplies. In case the Prime Vendor desires, 
he may include import certification for suppliers covered in ‘Others’, over and above 
the tier suppliers considered in Para 25.6.1 above. 
27.6.3 In th e event of non -incorporation of the definitions and / or verification 
requirements laid down in contracts or agreements by vendors with the next tier at any 
stage (tier) of manufacturing / production / assembly, it shall be presumed that items / 
services provided by that stage / tier to the next tier have no IC.  
27.6.4 In the event of non -certification of IC at any stage (tier) as required herein, it 
shall be presumed that items / services provided by that stage / tier to the next stage 
(tier) have no IC. 
27.7. Certification Requirements. 
27.7.1. All deliveries, including deliveries in batches / lots, made under contractual 
obligations shall be accompanied by a certificate of IC achieved for the deliverables of 
that batch / lot, along with cumulative IC ach ieved to include all previous deliveries 
(including deliveries of the current batch / lot) made under the contract. This certificate 
shall be issued by the ‘Responsible Designated Official’ i.e. the contract Signing 
Authority, Authorised Signatory etc., of the Prime Vendor and certified by the Statutory 
Auditor or Cost Auditor of the Company (in case of companies) or by a practising Cost 
Accountant or practising Chartered Accountant (in respect of suppliers other than 
companies).  
20 
27.7.2. Further, the prototype / equipment offered for trials shall be accompanied by a 
certificate of IC issued for the prototype / equipment offered for trials, in case the RFP 
mandates IC for Prototype / EUT at Trials Stage.  
27.7.3. The format for certification of IC by the ‘Responsible Designated Official’ and 
Statutory Auditor / Cost Auditor / certified or licensed Cost Accountant / Chartered 
Accountant shall be as per Appendix D to Chapter I of the Handbook on Guidelines 
& Annexures.  
27.7.4. Deliveries by the final stage of the contract, with cumulative IC achieved across 
all deliverables and stages of the contract calculated against the total value of CBCP, 
must conform to the overall IC requirements specified for the contract . The Prime 
Vendor is required to submit a certificate of overall IC achieved across all deliverables 
and stages of the contract, along with the last delivery, but not later than one year after 
the last delivery under the contract, failing which MoD can take any of the steps as per 
Paras 25.10 to 25.13 below against the Prime Vendor. 
27.8 Verification.     The MoD can exercise its right to conduct verification with reasonable 
notice of relevant certifications and costs pertaining to imports for the contract at all or any 
stages (tiers) of manufacturing / production / assembly, starting from the Prime Vendor 
downwards. The verification could be conducted by the MoD itself and / or by an agency / 
institution / officer(s) nominated by the MoD, as may be decided by the MoD during the tenure 
of the contract and completed within one year of the last delivery under the contract. However, 
financial records will only need to be maintained for the duration as stipulated by the existing 
Income Tax regulations at the time of signing of contract.  Verification of IC will mandatorily 
be carried out in cases where incentives / reward for a higher IC are to be granted. 
27.9. Incentives for IC.     If approved by AoN According Authority and included in RFP / 
EOI & contract, vendors shall be eligible for additional rewards as detailed below:- 
27.9.1. Reward for Use of Indigenous Raw Materials.     A reward from 5% to 15% 
of the supplied material cost shall be applicable in accordance with Para 27.2 of this 
Chapter for the use of specified indigenous Military Materials. 
27.9.2. Reward for Indigenous Manufacturing of Components.      Reward of up to 
1% of BCP for indigenous manufacturing of each identified component, LRU or 
software, subject to a maximum limit of 10%. 
27.9.3. Reward for Critical Technology Absorption .     Reward of up to 2% for 
absorption of each identified critical technology, subject to a maximum of 10%. 
27.9.4. Cumulative Rewards.     In case more than one option of the above is exercised 
for reward, the cumulative reward shall not exceed 10% of the BCP or Rs 4 00 Crores, 
whichever is lower. Cumulative rewards exceeding Rs 400 Crores shall be approved by 
AoN According Authority, if due justification exists. 
27.9.5. Payment of Reward .     The payment of rewards will be made only after 
verification of the parameters applicable for the reward.  
27.9.6. Repeat Order / Option Clause.     In subsequent cases of repeat order / option 
clause, the items for which additional rewards has been given in the main procurement 
have to be maintained and for which further incentive s will not be given as they have 
already been granted in the main procurement. 
27.10. Release of Performance cum Warranty Bank Guarantee (PWBG).      
21 
27.10.1. PWBG shall be released only after the submission of a certificate of 
meeting the overall IC at th e contract level, furnished by the ‘Responsible Designated 
Official’, preferably approved by the Executive Board of the Prime Vendor, after 
completion of all the contractual deliveries, in addition to any other requirements 
specified elsewhere in the contract.  
27.10.2. In case the contract requires mandatory verification of IC by MoD or 
such verification is notified and initiated by the MoD, the PWBG shall be released only 
after completing verification of the IC in all relevant deliveries by the MoD or its  
nominated agency / institution / officer(s). 
27.11. Withholding of Payment.     In case the vendor fails to certify achieving mandatory IC 
for the project, 5% of BCP will be withheld till :-  
27.11.1. Submission of certificate of overall IC for the contract.   
27.11.2. Completion of verification of IC in case the contract requires mandatory 
verification of IC by MoD or such verification is notified and initiated by the MoD.   
27.12. Forfeiture of PWBG & Payments Withheld .     The PWBG and payments withheld 
shall be forfeited upon failure of the vendor to submit the certificate of overall IC within one 
year of the last delivery under the contract / failure to achieve the required IC post verification, 
as applicable. 
27.13. Additional Penalties.     In case mandatory IC is not achieved by a vendor and / or if a 
false certificate is furnished by a vendor / sub-vendor, other than the forfeiture of the vendor’s 
PWBG and payment withheld as described above, the MoD may impose any other penalty as 
deemed appropriate.  
28. Military Materials.      
28.1 Seeking Inputs during RFI.     SHQ shall examine acquisition projects with substantial 
material components at the RFI stage to assess the feasibility of using indigenous materials and 
implementing reward mechanisms for  the same. If the material is known to be available, an 
RFI to material manufacturers may be issued and further information may be sought on the 
following aspects: - 
28.1.1 Identification of the main material in case of platforms and details of major input 
materials in case of equipment/ systems. 
28.1.2 Availability in the country and known sources with material designation, 
standard / code and grade and test standards. 
28.1.3 Equivalence of standard / code at paragraph 1.1.2 above with those required. 
28.1.4 Vendor’s likely plan for sourcing the material(s). 
28.1.5 Likely cost of material(s) if sourced from Indian vendors as compared to their 
import cost. 
28.2. Reward Structure and Incentives.     Based on Preliminary studies and RFI responses, 
SHQ may include material sourcing methodologies in the SoC when seeking AoN:- 